My name is Irina Alexandrovna Evgenievna. I am a Doctor of Technical Sciences, certified business trainer.
I have practical experience in the implementation of electronic systems of operational management of companies, electronic document system of circulation.
I have practical experience in the construction of training system of personnel, business training.
As a Master of Personnel Planning I am engaged in issues of interpersonal and organizational communication.
Our today's course is called Communication in organizations.
Do you know how much working time the manager spends on communication?
80% of his time or 48 minutes per hour the manager spends on meetings, phone calls, informal communication.
The rest 20% of the time or 12 minutes goes to work at the table, most of which is the same communication, only in the form of reading or writing.
That is, the efficiency of the manager's activities is completely dependent on the efficiency of his communication.
Information exchange is included as the most important link in all basic types of organization activity.
Therefore, if communication connections do not exist or do not work, this negatively affects the work of the entire company.
The manager spends a lot of time looking for the necessary information.
Often information duplication occurs.
In some departments, its disadvantage is noticed, while in others there may be information overload.
The lack of information about the plans and prospects of the organization leads to the failure to comply with the instructions of the management, to the weakening of the motivation of employees.
That is why creating conditions for successful communication in the organization is one of the most important tasks of the management,
and communication skills are a necessary condition for the success of each manager.
During the first part of the course, you will get an idea of ​​communication as in a circular process and get acquainted with the concept of the capacity of communication channels.
The second part of the course is dedicated to the communication barriers in the interpersonal communication, their influence on the productivity and efficiency of communication.
In the third part, organizational communications, the difference between formal and informal organizational communications,
their importance for management, the influence of the structure on communication in teams,
the technical support of the organizational communication processes, the role of open communications, dialogue and feedback in a modern workplace are considered in the fourth part of our course.
During the implementation of practical tasks and solving cases, you will acquire practical skills in building effective communications in your organization.
Our course is connected with other courses that you have probably already taken.
These are option management, business communication, business psychology, organizational structure building.
Perhaps some topics will be interlinked with these courses, but I will focus my attention on those points that you have not yet heard of.
Communication
Communication is a process in which two or more people exchange and realize the received information.
The purpose of the process is to motivate a certain behavior or influence it.
From the general management course, you know that Henry Mintzberg has identified 10 managerial roles that a manager plays in his workplace.
Let's take a closer look at the information role of a manager.
A manager can act as a recipient of information.
He searches and receives information of a specialized nature, which, understanding the organization and external conditions, is successfully used in the interests of his business.
He acts as a kind of center of external and internal information that comes to the organization.
He processes all the mail, makes contacts related to the receipt of information, for example, reads periodic publications or goes on introductory trips.
As a distributor of information, he transmits the information received from external sources or from other subordinates to the members of the organization.
Some of this information is purely factual, while others require interpretation of certain facts to form the organization's views.
Mail sending to organizations in order to provide information is his job.
He also makes verbal contacts with members of the organization to clarify some information.
A manager, as a representative, transmits information to external contacts in the organization regarding plans, policies, actions, results of the organization's work.
He acts as an expert on the issues of this industry.
He participates in meetings, in emails, perhaps, makes oral speeches, including information transmission to external organizations.
Note that both interpersonal roles and roles related to decision-making also require active communication from the manager.
Considering communication in business as a scientific applied discipline also determines the approach, point of view on the processes in business.
We can talk about the so-called communicative approach in management, when the organization considers, first of all, how the relationship between people, between groups.
For example, from the point of view of the communicative approach, management of personnel is an organization of communication related to the activities of individual people and groups in the interests of the organization and in their own interests.
For example, marketing is the communication of the organization with market objects regarding the determination of market needs and the possibility of their satisfaction, or about the means and ways of promoting goods and services of the organization to the market.
Conflictology is the study of communication, based on which the contradictions of the interests of the parties lie.
From the point of view of communication with the public, it is the study of the problem of forming a positive idea of the organization, of its products, of its services.
From the point of view of advertising, it is communication with the aim of attracting attention, forming interest, desire, activity of the buyers of goods.
From the point of view of corporate culture, it is an important component of the culture, it is communication. In fact, corporate culture is a culture of communication, a culture of management.
Communication penetrates all management functions. For example, what is planning? It is a collection of information, writing, notes, reports. It is a meeting with colleagues and managers, an explanation of their plans.
When a manager acts as a leader, he must communicate with his subordinates to motivate them to work. When he is in control, he is also obliged to collect information.
It is because the exchange of information is built into all the basic types of management activity, we call communication a connecting process.
The typology of business communication is presented on slide 11.
Communication is a process associated with interpersonal and organizational communication when transferring information both inside the organization and from the external environment. Therefore, communication can be divided into external and internal.
The factors of the external environment, such as consumers, suppliers, competitors, determine the composition and content of external communications. Moreover, internal communications are often a reaction to the changing characteristics of the external environment.
Organizations use a variety of means of communication with the external environment. For example, they communicate with consumers through a variety of advertising.
They provide relevant reports to the Tax Inspection. In the sphere of relations with the public, they form their image, carry out some charity activity.
They use their advertising, their raw materials, components, conclude contracts on deliveries with suppliers.
Internal communications are communications between structural units and individual performers.
In the framework of vertical communications, information is transferred from level to level within the organization. At the same time, information can be transmitted both in ascending and in descending.
In the case of descending, information is transmitted from the highest levels to the lowest, playing the role of direct communication.
In the case of ascending, communication from bottom to top performs the function of feedback, informing the managers about the state of affairs at the lower levels.
The organization consists of a large number of units closely interconnected with each other.
The coordination of the activities of all these units, in addition to descending and ascending vertical information, is needed in horizontal communications.
Vertical and horizontal communications are considered to act within the official structure of the organization,
according to the line of formal subordination, formal hierarchy, and also according to the lines of formal subordination of horizontal interaction.
However, informal communications also play an important role within the organization, which act within the informal structure.
Information is transmitted through informal channels much faster than through formal channels.
Often, managers use informal communications for planned information leakage.
The term communication itself appeared in scientific literature at the beginning of the 20th century,
although probably the very first model of communication was proposed by Aristotle, who highlighted such components of the communication process as orator, speech, and audience.
The first to study the communication processes in the organization were the representatives of the School of Science and Management.
In particular, Frederick Taylor developed a rigid organizational structure, which was later improved by Henri Fayol,
which involves a clear interconnection between positions and roles.
This structure only includes vertical and horizontal communications from the managers to subordinates.
That is, such an organization is based on formal, extremely rigid, vertical, and hierarchical communication connections.
Information is transmitted vertically, divided into two types, tasks and the necessary explanation for it.
Taylor called it a lesson, as well as control over the execution of the task.
At the same time, feedback during control is reduced only to a report on the execution of the task.
In general, it can be said that this scientific school did not attach much importance to the communication in the organization.
According to the basic concept of the School of Human Relations, a person is a unique social animal,
therefore, no formalization of organizational processes and a rigid hierarchy of subordinates can be combined with his activity.
On the contrary, horizontal organizational connections of informal nature between members of the organization are of great importance.
These connections should facilitate the functioning of the formal organization
and ensure the unity of the collective and the protection of the integrity of the personality.
However, representatives of the School of Human Relations paid attention to mostly informal communication
between the employees of the organization with different statuses, forgetting about their interaction with the administration,
as well as the flow of business information necessary for the performance of their role duties.
All system theories claim that the connections between the various system units of the organization
are the main point in understanding the essence of its functioning.
For the effective operation of these connections, the most important role is played by the creation, obtaining and processing of information.
Considering the organization as an open system, system theories focus on its interaction with the external environment,
the study of the flow of information coming from other organizations and from social institutions,
such as government, political and public institutions.
Within the framework of system theories, the information flows are analyzed
and the quality of the information presented as formal and informal channels is assessed,
as well as the number of decisions made depending on the actions of the communication system.
The main development of communication theory was achieved relatively recently, since the late 1940s.
It is worth paying attention to the details of those theories that are considered to be classical communication theories.
At the end of the 1940s, at the request of Bell Telecom, the famous American mathematician Claude Shannon
began to develop his model of communication.
The model described five functional and one dysfunctional factors of the communication process.
The functional factor was the source of information, which protects the message,
the sender, which encodes the message into signals, the channel that conducts this message,
the receiver and the destination, where the dysfunctional element was noise.
The model has a technical nature.
The main task of this model is to reduce noise, that is, everything that hinders communication.
The main conclusion of this model is the following.
The inability of the participants of communication to realize that the sent and received message do not always coincide
due to the action of noise is a frequent cause of communication difficulties.
This model was called Shannon-Weaver model and was continued by researcher Melvin DeFleur.
He expanded the original model into a more developed network.
The main drawback of the Shannon-Weaver linear model is the lack of feedback.
Feedback allows the communicator to adapt its message to the communicative channel,
naturally, to increase the efficiency of the transmission of information.
The Shannon-Weaver model was a final overcoming of the simplified interpretation of communication
as a one-sided linear process.
The circular nature of communication is emphasized in this model.
The authors paid attention to the behavior of the main participants of communication,
the sender and the receiver, the main tasks of which are encoding, decoding
and interpretation of the message.
Modern researchers of communication processes represent the process of information exchange as follows.
The sender is the creator of the message, the one who proposes an idea
or creates the information on his own or accumulates the existing information for further transmission,
deciding what significant information can be the subject of the transmission,
how to encode it, which channel to send the information to.
The sender thus begins the process of communication exchange.
The message is the information prepared for the transmission to the receiver,
encoded using symbols, words, special sign symbols,
tone of the message, drawings, gestures, and so on.
In the process of encoding, that is, the transformation of the meaning of the idea into symbols,
problems may arise, the actions of which distort the communication,
reduce the effectiveness of the communication process.
For example, the sender makes a message from symbols that the receiver does not understand,
has not met in his previous experience or interprets incorrectly.
The channel of information transmission is a means of information transmission
or a path, a path of actual transmission of the message.
The understanding and acceptance of the received message depends on the quality of the channel of information transmission
and a lot depends on whether the leader can adjust to the individual system of perception of information by the individual.
At the same time, the following channels of information transmission are different.
Speech channel, transmission of written materials, electronic means of communication, such as computer networks,
video conferences, email.
The receiver is a person or a group or an organization to which information is transmitted
and which interprets or decodes it.
The interpretation of the message of the receiver is not always successful.
Incorrect interpretation is often due to the lack of language,
perception, culture, differences in the interests of the sender or receiver.
Noise is all that distorts the meaning of the message.
This is an element that is actually present in all communications.
At each stage, there are possible noises.
The sources of noise that make it difficult to understand the meaning of the message
are the differences in the perception of information,
which affect the clarity of the meaning when encoding and decoding.
This is a mismatch and a difference in the official status,
that is, a different vision of the goals, tasks of the organization, its units,
and the features of the culture, the features of the language of the sender and the receiver.
The result or effect of communication influence is a change in behavior,
in the state of the receiver of information,
which can be expressed in the change in the knowledge of the receiver,
in the change in his attitudes,
or in the change in the individual actions of the receiver, in his behavior.
A feedback is an operative reaction to what is heard, read or seen.
This is information in a verbal or non-verbal form,
which is sent back to the sender.
It indicates the extent of understanding, the extent of trust in the message,
whether the message is learned or not, whether the receiver agrees with it or not.
A feedback allows the sender not only to know the result of the communication act,
but also to correct the following message for greater understanding,
for greater effect of communication.
In a recent study, an attempt was made to explain the process of choosing
the most effective communication channels.
It turned out that the channels differ in the volume of transmitted information.
The throughput or capacity of the channel is the volume of information
that can be transmitted through this channel during one communication session.
The classification of channels by throughput is presented on slide 15.
Three factors affect the capacity of communication channels.
First of all, it is the ability to process several signals and prompts at the same time.
The second is the ability to provide fast two-way feedback.
And finally, the last factor is the ability to provide a personal approach to communication.
The richest means of communication in terms of these capabilities is personal communication,
because it guarantees direct impact, transmission of multiple information signals
and immediate feedback and, of course, personal approach.
In the case of phone communication, there is no personal contact between the sender and the receiver.
Participants do not perceive the poses, the language of gestures of each other.
However, there is a human voice, and it contains a huge amount of emotional information.
In e-mails, there are usually no visual or verbal prompts,
which increases the likelihood of misunderstanding of these messages.
Realizing the need for channels with more capacity,
managers sometimes use video signals, that is, visual prompts.
Notes and letters can also have a personal approach,
but they cannot provide fast feedback.
Personal communication channels are announcements, ballots, standard computer reports,
are the most capacious.
Their throughput is limited to the greatest extent.
Using them, the sender has no ability to focus on a particular receiver,
transmits minimum information and does not receive feedback.
It is obvious that each communication channel has certain advantages and disadvantages.
Each of them, depending on the type of communication,
can be used to achieve a certain level of efficiency.
The choice of the channel depends on whether the message is ordinary, routine or not.
As a rule, non-standard messages are ambiguous, ambiguous,
associated with some new event,
and there is a very high probability that they may be misunderstood.
Often, they are transmitted in a situation characterized by a lack of time,
and therefore, there is a high probability that the message is not correct.
The most capacious channels allow to effectively convey the complexity of the situation.
On the other hand, routine communication is simple and straightforward.
A routine message contains various data
or simply attaches in a written form the information that the managers have already agreed on.
Such messages can be transmitted through less capacious channels.
To the written form, the message is not very complicated,
and the message is transmitted through less capacious channels.
Writing communication has to be used when the receivers of the message are significantly removed from each other
or when the information has some official nature.
The choice of the channel also depends on whether the manager simply wants to distribute the information
or wants to achieve changes in behavior from the subordinates.
Recommendations for choosing a channel, depending on the purpose of communication, are presented on slide 16.
The channel is a good place to start a conversation with your manager.
If you have any questions, please contact us.
We are happy to help you.
We move on to the second topic of our lecture — interpersonal communication.
We will discuss the issue of effectiveness and productivity of communication.
Effective communication takes place in cases when the meaning of the message
and the value perceived by the receiver are practically the same.
Although this should be the goal of any communication,
efficiency is not always achievable.
Even now, when I am talking to you, I am not sure that you understand me exactly as I would like.
My confidence would be much higher if you were sitting in the audience
and could ask some questions, meaning, I could get feedback.
The ability to offer feedback and ask questions
is an important way to improve the effectiveness of communication.
Productive communication takes place in cases when the minimum amount of resources is spent.
For example, time is a very important resource.
Imagine a teacher who individually communicates with each student in the group
about the subject they are studying.
This is almost impossible.
But even if it were so,
communication with you would be too expensive in terms of time.
Productive communication is not always effective.
If the sender sends a message via email about changes in the policy,
it can save him time, but not always lead to a positive result,
that is, to the desired interpretation and response.
Similarly, effective communication is not always productive.
If the production manager personally approaches each worker
and explains all the changes in the procedure to him,
it can guarantee that everyone will understand it correctly.
However, this will be unacceptable and expensive in terms of time.
Effective communication between managers and other people
implies the need to use all the elements presented in the communication model.
If the sender or receiver is unable to encode or decode the message in a similar way,
the communication process is interrupted.
The choice of the channel also largely determines the interference resistance of the messages.
The ability of both parties to listen depends on whether the message is correctly perceived and received.
Thus, effective communication requires the knowledge of the interpersonal factors
that influence the communication process from the manager,
such as channels of communication, non-verbal behavior,
the ability to listen, the ability to provide high-quality feedback.
In the process of interpersonal communication,
information can be presented in a verbal, paraverbal and non-verbal form.
If verbal communications are directly related to the content of the transmitted information,
then paraverbal and nonverbal communications demonstrate the attitude of the interlocutors to it
and thus largely determine the effectiveness of the information assimilation to its addressee.
It is believed that from the total flow of information
that a person perceives in the process of communication,
up to 80% is non-verbal and paraverbal information,
and only up to 20% is the words themselves.
The use of psychotechnologies,
originally developed in psychotherapy and intended to increase the degree of influence on the interlocutor,
sharply increases the productivity of interpersonal communication.
You can get acquainted with such technologies
during the study of the course on the psychology of business communication.
We only focus on those communication barriers
that arise in the process of interpersonal interaction.
It is very important to remember about the seven sources of noise
that are most often encountered in interpersonal communication.
First of all, this is the inability to listen to the interlocutor,
this is physical distortion,
this is semantic problems,
this is mixed messages,
cultural differences
and the absence of feedback,
as well as the effects of status.
Those who are able to listen understand the skills of receiving messages,
to highlight the facts and feelings contained in them,
and to correctly interpret their meaning.
Only then does the manager have the opportunity
to adequately respond to the original message.
The ability to listen requires attention from a person,
energy expenditure, and a certain experience.
Listening is 75% of effective communication.
At the same time, most people spend only 30 or 40% of their communication time on it.
This leads to numerous communication errors.
Many people do not know how to listen to their interlocutors.
They are concerned, first of all, about what they will say,
not what they are told.
Our ability to listen,
expressed in the volume of understood and memorized material,
on average does not exceed 25%.
A person who can listen to an interlocutor
finds interesting topics in conversation,
conducts a conversation flexibly,
summarizes the received information in a thoughtful way,
evaluates and predicts the information
that he will receive in the next minute.
The correct approach to listening suggests
that you do not think about yourself,
but empathize, participate emotionally in the dialogue,
and penetrate the feelings of the interlocutor.
Therefore, a certain level of development of emotional abilities is necessary for this.
This is called empathy.
As an example of a sample listener,
we can give some talk show presenters.
For example, the famous TV presenter Vladimir Molchanov
actively listens to guests in the studio.
He does not allow himself to be distracted,
he concentrates all his attention on the speakers.
He establishes eye contact,
he listens with empathy,
he participates emotionally in the conversation.
He never interrupts the interlocutor
and at the end rephrases the statement of the interlocutor.
In order to make sure that he understood him correctly.
Thanks to Vladimir Molchanov's developed ability to listen,
his guests feel themselves desirable, understood and significant.
Compare this talk show, let them say,
where the presenter does not have the skills of listening.
Any number of physical distortions
can also reduce the effectiveness of communication.
It is necessary to exclude such interference as
phone calls, random visitors, the arrival of a secretary.
Semantic communication barriers include
a bad choice of words or improper use of them.
In general, semantics studies the ways of using words
and the meanings given by words.
Since words or symbols can have different meanings for different people,
what someone is going to say
will not necessarily be interpreted and understood
in the same way by the recipient of information.
The full dictionary of English
provides more than 14,000 possible definitions
for 500 most common words.
A leader who tells a subordinate
that the report is adequate
may mean that it is complete and meets the goals.
However, a subordinate can decode it in a different way.
For example, he can understand that the report is incomplete
or needs improvement or is out of order.
Studies have shown that managers and leaders of different levels
give the same meaning to words such as status,
incentive, quota, cooperation, budget, and other words.
Semantic difficulties can also be caused
by the divergence of the ways
by which people assign meanings to groups of symbols.
This moment is of great importance for communication.
For example, if you tell your subordinate
to do something as soon as you are given the opportunity,
what do you really mean?
As soon as possible or as soon as you have time?
Semantic barriers can create communication problems
for companies operating in a multinational environment.
Another problem is overloading of the message.
Overloading can be caused by an abundance of professional terms
and expressions that are not always understood
by employees of other departments or other organizations.
Complex language obscures people's consciousness,
and great strategic ideas are almost always described in short words,
as Jack Trout said.
When there is a doubt about the clarity of a written or oral message,
Trout advised to remember the well-known principle of kiss communication.
Keep it short and smile.
We are talking about mixed messages,
in those cases when words convey one message,
and the body language is different.
It is very important to follow the body language,
because non-verbal symbols are able to give a key to understanding
what should actually be said during a personal conversation.
They highlight three sources of information signals
that are transmitted in a decent communication.
These are the words that are spoken,
the voice, i.e. the tension of the voice, intonation, tone,
and the expression of the person-interlocutor.
As for the weight of these three factors
when interpreting messages,
verbal impact is 7% of the total amount of communication,
voice is 38%,
and the expression of the person is 55% of the total amount of received information.
It is obvious that it is not important what is said,
but how it is said, how words are pronounced.
Non-verbal messages convey thoughts and feelings
much more effectively than any of the most carefully selected words.
And all verbal and non-verbal messages can contradict each other.
In this case, the recipient comes to a confusion.
What did the person want to say?
To what extent should we trust his words,
his behavior?
Studies show that non-verbal symbols are usually trusted.
Cultural differences.
In the conditions of globalization, for many companies,
moving employees within the framework of the international office
becomes one of the main principles of work.
This helps to educate leaders who can manage international business.
However, often the results shown by a manager in one country
can be completely different in another country.
It can be not so effective.
This is due to national features,
various ways of doing business,
and culture and relations between people in different countries.
Under the influence of culture, relations to work are formed,
relations to time, to their colleagues, to goals, to lifestyle.
These values ​​have a huge importance for a successful business of a company.
For example, Americans are considered to be big individualists.
They are independent and independent.
Their motivation is based solely on personal benefit.
Their success is measured by the amount of money.
Therefore, they save time, they value punctuality,
they live on schedule.
Representatives of courageous cultures, such as Japan, Germany, America,
are aimed at achieving results.
They are ready for competition.
They are aggressive in their business.
Women's cultures, such as Russia, Ukraine or the Baltic States,
consider work not as a goal, but as a means of comfort.
Excessive control by the company management
will be perceived by the Western manager as a sign of distrust.
On the contrary, representing the complete freedom of action
to an employee from Russia or Ukraine,
the manager risks not to get any results.
Another example of the influence of cultural features
is the process of merging the German Daimler company with the American Chrysler.
As a result, the joint company had problems
that initially seemed unimportant.
For Germans who are used to smoking and drinking beer for lunch,
and Americans who lead a more British lifestyle,
it was necessary to create certain rules of conduct in the office
that would be comfortable for all participants in the process.
Today, international standards of business communication
developed by the World Trade Association have been adopted.
The standards include the rules of conduct in the business environment,
the rules of business negotiations,
the rules of reception,
the handover of protocol gifts, and so on.
In the context of globalization,
these standards significantly facilitate intercultural communication
and allow to avoid many conflict situations.
The study of the specified standards
is included in almost all training programs
for preparing managers for foreign economic activity.
International business experts advise
to study the language of the country where you are going
at least in a minimal volume for a better understanding of cultural differences,
with the representatives of which you plan to have a business.
Perhaps the prospect of studying a foreign language may sound frightening,
but the results are quite justified by the efforts made.
The feedback allows the manager to determine
how effective or ineffective his communication is.
We have already talked about the possibility of feedback
when we talked about the communication model.
But despite all the significance,
feedback is often not paid enough attention to,
and in the process of interpersonal communication
feedback requires special attention.
Feedback is a deliberate message to another person
about the actions that lead to the achievement of the goal
and those that lead to the results that do not meet the goals of the organization.
Feedback functions are support and encouragement of actions
that lead to success and give the desired result,
or change of ineffective behavior.
The ability to provide both positive and negative feedback
is a necessary component of the effective leader's communicative competence.
It is appropriate to provide feedback to subordinates
in accordance with the following principles.
Feedback should be balanced.
If feedback is too critical,
the subordinate may internally reject it.
If feedback is too praiseworthy,
it may be perceived as protection, which will also cause a negative effect.
Feedback should combine positive and negative points.
Balancing should be done in order to make feedback acceptable for the subordinate
depending on his nationality, culture, and personal characteristics.
Feedback should be specific.
Feedback is not a place for discussion
whether the subordinate said or did something.
The leader should always address a specific fact or action.
Avoid generalizing phrases such as
«you are always», «you are inclined».
Feedback is about what was done or said,
how and why.
Guesses about someone's motives
bring an atmosphere of distrust and hostility into communication.
Feedback should be understandable.
The leader should use a language understandable for the subordinate,
without jargon and unfamiliar words.
Feedback should be active.
The subordinate should not remain a passive listener.
He should be actively involved in the process of changing his behavior
to achieve certain tasks.
In order to make the feedback process more active,
it is useful to ask the subordinate himself,
to make comments about his behavior,
about his knowledge or about his skills.
Feedback should be comparable.
Progress is made if the subordinate can compare
how he performed a specific task
with his previous attempts.
Feedback should be directed at behavior.
Feedback focuses attention on behavior,
not on the Personality as such.
You should talk about what people do,
not what you think about them.
Thus, you can tell someone
that he spoke the most at the meeting,
instead of saying «you are too talkative».
The first phrase leaves room for change in behavior,
while the second phrase simply states that he is talkative,
emphasizes a certain feature of his character.
Feedback should be sufficient.
When a person performs his work,
he makes some efforts and tries.
Therefore, if he receives some kind of fleeting feedback,
especially in the case of a long-awaited achievement,
he may have a feeling
that his efforts were unnoticed.
This can lead to demotivation of an employee.
The so-called Russell feedback formula
has been widely spread.
According to it,
the supervisor should follow this algorithm
in the process of presenting feedback to an employee.
First of all, let the employee see
what he did on specific facts.
Show him the consequences of this behavior
and outline further actions to change this behavior.
Depending on the situation and personal characteristics,
people differ in the fact
that they can receive a different number of feedback.
Each critical word is a drop that gets into a certain vessel.
If you listen carefully and actively,
you can understand that this vessel is approaching its fullness.
If a person is willing to receive a comment,
he says,
«Yes, now I see it, I know,
I would like to hear even more comments».
If the vessel is close to its fullness,
you can hear such comments.
«I think I don't understand», «No, I didn't do that»,
«Maybe yes, maybe no».
This means that feedback should be stopped
and waited for when a person will learn what you have said.
Status and differences in existing organizations
create potential communication barriers
between people of different ranks.
On the one hand, using the power of one's own status,
managers may be inclined to talk a lot and listen little.
On the other hand, communication is often distorted
when there is a rising flow
in the hierarchical structure of the organization.
Subordinates can filter information
and tell their leader only what,
in their opinion, they would like to hear.
No matter what the reason is,
fear of retribution for bad news
or a desire to admit one's mistakes
or a general mood to do something pleasant,
as it always leads to the same result.
That is, a person who makes decisions at a high level
can make mistakes
due to distortion or inaccurate information
that came from below.
To avoid such problems,
managers and group leaders
should build trustworthy working relations
with subordinates and members of the group,
taking all the advantages of communication face to face.
Currently, the most popular way
to build trust is the management of walking methods.
This method means
that the leader should only regularly leave his office
and talk to people at work.
Managers who spend a lot of time this way
significantly reduce the distance
between themselves and their subordinates.
This helps to create an atmosphere of open
and free communication between people,
regardless of their official position.
As a result, when making decisions,
the leader has more information at his disposal,
and at the same time decisions
meet the needs of the workers.
What is the role of communication in the organization?
We move on to another aspect of communication
related to the organization as a whole.
On the organization scale,
communication is usually carried out in three directions.
From top to bottom, from bottom to top,
and in a horizontal plane.
Information in the organization
is distributed both on formal and informal channels.
Formal channels coincide with the hierarchical levels in the organization.
The organizational structure determines
which way the official information,
the official message,
should go from one hierarchical level to another.
Since formal channels are recognized as official,
they are used for the transfer of politics, procedures,
and other official messages.
On the other hand,
informal channels form the main network.
They have nothing to do with the hierarchy of power in the organization.
They exist together with the formal channels,
but often differ from them,
jumping over hierarchical levels.
Informal channels contribute to the creation of open communications
in the organization
and ensure that the right people
will get in touch with each other.
Managers should create and support
formal channels of communication in all directions.
In addition, informal channels are at their disposal.
Simply put, every manager has the opportunity
to get out of the office at least once,
walk through the production workshops
and talk to employees.
The most obvious stream of formal communications
that we are familiar with
is the descending communication.
It consists of messages and information
sent by the company's higher management.
Communications from top to bottom
can take various forms.
The most common are speeches,
messages in corporate publications,
by email,
investments in envelopes,
salary, information sheets,
messages on the boards of announcements,
and some reference manuals
handed down by the company's management.
In addition,
the manager determines the content of communications.
It is almost impossible to keep employees
aware of everything
that is happening in the organization.
Therefore, the manager must choose
the most important information
from all existing information.
As a rule, the descending communications
cover the following topics.
The management's understanding of goals and strategies.
The manager's understanding of new strategies and goals
provides employees with information
about specific tasks,
specific plans
and the behavior expected from them.
The information obtained
determines the main areas
in which the organization's lower levels will operate.
For example,
we are starting a new program
to improve the quality of production.
Its success determines the possibility
of increasing our share in the market
by 45%.
This is the message
about goals and strategies.
The management's instructions and orders.
These are directives
describing the performance of a specific task
and its connection with other types of organization activities.
For example,
in connection with the repair of workshop No. 2,
the procurement department must provide
the supply of necessary building materials.
The procedures and various rules.
In such messages,
the policy, rules, norms,
and structure of the organization are described.
For example,
after 90 days of work in the company,
an employee receives the opportunity
to purchase child benefits in the preventive care unit.
The feedback on the results of the activity.
Such messages contain information
about how well or badly
individual employees or departments
perform their work tasks.
For example,
Nikolai Ivanovich,
the company's performance
over the computer network
and the efficiency of the procurement process
has significantly increased.
Implementation of ideas.
These messages are intended
to motivate employees
to take on the company's missions,
its cultural values,
to participate in special ceremonies
such as joint evenings.
An example of such a message
is the employee of the company
«This is one family.
We are happy to invite you
to our company.
The main problem
of the descending information flows
is dispersion.
That is, complete distortion
or complete disappearance
of the original meaning of the message.
That is, complete distortion
or complete disappearance
of the original meaning of the message.
Yes, formal communication
is one of the most effective ways
to bring information
to the employees of the company.
But at the same time,
the employees of the company
are not able to
communicate with the company
in a formal way.
This is due to the fact
that the company
has a very limited
number of employees.
The number of employees
is very small.
The first person
is invited to the room
and the first person
passes on everything he remembers
from this message.
Then the next person is invited
to whom the second person
passes on everything he remembers,
everything he heard,
and so on.
I'm sure you'll laugh
when you hear
what the last person
in this chain will say.
Thus, the information
is practically impossible.
However, with the help of the methods
we talked about in the previous sections,
the losses can be significantly reduced.
To do this, it is necessary to choose
the most adequate communication channel,
to achieve the correspondence
of verbal and non-verbal messages,
to actively listen,
to make the message
and to take into account the perception of the recipient.
The flow of rising communications
forms the message
transmitted from the lowest levels of the organization
to the highest levels of the hierarchy.
The following five types of messages
are related to the flow of communication.
First of all, these are problems and questions.
For example,
the printer has not been working for two days,
and a new one will be received
no earlier than in a week.
Suggestions for improvement.
New ideas
regarding improving various procedures,
improving the quality or effectiveness of work
can also be passed on this way.
For example,
I believe it is necessary to abandon
step number two of the audit procedure,
because it takes a lot of time
and does not affect the result in any way.
The next type of such messages
is reports on the results of the activity.
The top managers
periodically receive reports
on the work of individual employees and departments.
For example,
a report on the results of sales
will be presented on time,
and a report on the results of the implementation
of the partner program
will be provided in two days.
The next type of messages
is reports on the results of the work.
The results of the work
should be heard
and approved by the top management.
For example,
the operation analysis manager
was tasked with examining
the process of equipment utilization,
but the management of the plant
obstructed him.
Here is the complaint.
And the last type of messages
is financial and accounting information.
These include messages
about the results of the work,
the return of investments
and other indicators
that may interest the top management.
For example,
our expenses exceeded the estimated budget
by 2%,
but sales increased by 10%.
The management of the company
is very interested
in uninterrupted and rising communications
and uses various channels.
For example, boxes for notes with proposals,
polls of employees,
open-door policy,
information systems,
and direct dialogues
between the management and the employees.
And yet,
despite such titanic efforts
on the path of open exchange of information,
there are still barriers.
Managers are far from always ready
to delve into the problems of employees,
and the employees themselves do not burn with a desire
to tell about them voluntarily.
Innovation companies
strive for information
to reach top managers
in an undistorted form.
For example,
the SPICUP program
allows employees to regularly send anonymous letters
or emails to managers,
knowing that their messages
will not be ignored.
Horizontal communications
are an exchange of messages
between colleagues at work,
both within the organization
and between them.
As a rule,
horizontal communications
not only pursue the goal
of informing someone about something,
but also ask for coordination of actions.
Horizontal communications
are divided into three categories.
The first one
is the solution of problems within departments.
Such messages, as a rule,
are associated with the execution of tasks.
For example,
Svetlana,
can you help us fill in the list
of representative expenses?
The second type of message
is coordination of work in departments.
These are messages
that departments exchange
to fulfill
joint projects or common tasks.
For example,
Ivan, please contact the marketing and production department
and arrange a meeting.
We need to discuss some issues.
The next category of messages
is initiatives of changes and improvements.
Such messages
are exchanged by teams and departments
in an attempt to change,
improve or develop the organization.
For example,
we are simplifying the system of appointment making
and would like to make it easier
to discuss innovations
with your department.
Horizontal communications
are especially important
in an educational organization
where teams of workers
are constantly solving problems
and looking for new ways of cooperation,
looking for new ways of working.
Remember the module
on building organizational structures.
In order to improve
the coordination of types of activities,
many organizations
actively use horizontal communications,
which are used by special groups,
committees and even matrix structures.
A special type of horizontal communications
is communication in teams.
Teams have become the bricks
from which many modern organizations
are built.
Team members
jointly work on the fulfillment
of the same tasks.
The results obtained
and the degree of satisfaction
from the work
depend on the communication structure.
In some cases,
the team members
work on the fulfillment
of tasks side by side
and which are characterized
by coordination of activities.
Such a model of interaction
leads to the emergence
of a decentralized communication network
in which all members of the group
carry out direct communications
with each other
and freely exchange information.
Sometimes such a group,
such a structure
is called a general channel
or a communication network
of the type of a star.
It works best
in the case of complex
and non-standard tasks.
Such a structure, as a rule,
leads to a high level
of satisfaction of the group members.
The second scheme of organization
of work is a joint working group,
members of which
work on the fulfillment
of tasks independently,
although they are connected
to each other.
The tasks that are to be performed
are divided between the group members,
who then work individually on one.
Coordination of activities
of each member is carried out,
and the results are combined
in the central control point.
The information flows
to the central figure,
and then is distributed
between the members of the group.
Sometimes such a structure
is called an information network
built on the type of a wheel or a chain.
This is a situation
when a task is easily standardized
or divided into parts.
In such groups,
satisfaction is usually characteristic
for a person who occupies
the wheel's axis.
In the end, it is he
who participates in all aspects
of the group processing of information.
The opposing groups
are characterized
by the existence of subgroups
experiencing discrepancy
in some aspects
of production activities.
The reasons for the discrepancy
between subgroups
may be specific issues,
for example, short-term disputes
about the best ways
to achieve goals.
Sometimes the discrepancies
are long-term,
for example, in disputes
about production management.
As expected,
communication between groups
is often limited and distorted.
The difficulties of solving
simple problems
in centralized communication networks
have shown their high productivity.
Members of such teams
could simply pass information
to the leader who made the decision.
Decentralized networks
are more slow
in solving simple tasks
because the information
goes around all its members
until someone finally
puts all the parts together
and makes a final decision.
The more problems there are,
the faster the decentralized networks work.
Because the information
is concentrated not in one person,
but circulates during
intensive communication,
and each member of the team
has the opportunity to actively participate
in making decisions.
The accuracy of the decision changes
along with the level of difficulty of the problems.
Centralized networks
make fewer mistakes
in simple tasks,
but become less effective
in solving complex problems.
In this way,
it is fair to conclude
that in conditions of
tough global competition,
teams are used
to solve complex problems.
If the task set
before the team
is really difficult,
all its members
should have access to information,
i.e. a decentralized structure
in which the information
and communication
that fulfills routine tasks
spend much less time
on processing the information,
which means that a more adequate
centralized structure is presented.
This organization assumes
that the data is sent
to the leader
who makes the decisions,
and the members
have free time
to perform ordinary tasks.
Informal communication channels
are not connected
with legalized formal channels
but are connected
with the structure of the organization.
Informal communication
coexists with formal communication,
but does not depend on the hierarchy level
and connects all employees in the organization.
As a rule,
there are two types of informal channels
in organizations
– walking management
and secret telegraph.
Walking management,
based on the exits to the people,
became widely known
thanks to the popular bestseller
about the leaders
who prefer to receive information
about the company's activities
directly from conversations
with employees.
This method of communication
can be used by managers of all levels.
For example,
the president of the company ARCA
had a habit of visiting
the regional department of the company,
and instead of appointing
an official meeting
with the director of the department,
he came incognito
and was not able to meet
the director of the department.
In the case of walking management,
it helps to strengthen
both rising and falling communications.
Managers have the opportunity
to convey their ideas and values
to employees
and hear about the problems
of worrying employees.
A manager unable to manage
the walking management
feels his alienation,
some kind of detachment
and isolation from his subordinates.
The secret telegraph
exists always and everywhere.
If the formal channels of communication
in organizations are closed,
it acquires the character
of a dominating principle of communication.
But in this case,
it is undoubtedly useful
because information is spread
through it,
which contributes
to a more adequate perception of the situation.
Rumors allow employees
to fill the information vacuum
and to be able to
clarify various decisions of management.
The telegraph is activated
when there are changes in the company,
when there is anxiety
or when the economic situation is worsening.
Studies show
that the effectiveness of the secret telegraph
depends primarily
on several people.
Slide 27 presents
two of its most common schemes.
In a simple chain,
one person reports
any new information
to many others,
and in a cluster chain
information is transmitted
by several individuals.
The smaller the number of transfer links,
the more accurate the information.
With their increase,
the secret telegraph
turns into a spoiled phone.
What is surprising is that
the information transmitted
by the secret telegraph
differs in reliability
and is usually dedicated
to organizational problems.
The information transmitted
is somehow connected
with the business
and has nothing in common with the rumors.
Moreover,
up to 90% of the data is confirmed.
Many managers
are negatively related to the secret telegraph
and would be happy to get rid of it.
However, it should be borne in mind
that almost 5 out of 6
important messages
are distributed to some extent
by means of the secret telegraph
via official channels.
A survey of 22,000 shift workers
from various industries
showed that
55% of them
receive the bulk of information
through the secret telegraph.
The most remote managers
are well versed
in the subtleties
of this means of communication.
They know who is connected with whom
and who of the workers
plays a leading role
in the informal distribution
of information.
In all cases,
especially in crisis moments,
it is necessary to manage communications
wisely so that the secret telegraph
does not become the only source of information.
Communication barriers of the organization
Although communication in organizations
often has an interpersonal nature,
however,
not always the problems of their organization
are exhausted by interpersonal barriers.
Often,
on the path of effective communication
and, accordingly,
on the path of successful work of the organization
there are specific barriers
associated with various problems
of the organization as a whole.
These organizational barriers
in communications
deserve special attention
because their nature
is not associated with the specifics
of the individual or group behavior of people,
but with the problems of the organization itself.
When information moves
up and down inside the organization,
the meaning of the message
can be distorted.
This can be due to a number of reasons.
Messages can be distorted
unintentionally due to difficulties
in interpersonal contacts.
However, other factors
play a significant role
in the appearance of distortions.
Firstly,
it is possible that the information
is deliberately distorted by the source.
Such distortion can take place,
for example,
when the message serves
to assess the activity of the source
and it is modified
in accordance with the needs
of the source.
Secondly,
another important problem
is associated with the so-called
filtering of information.
Filtering is a process
of losing part of the message
due to inevitable losses
of any nature
when moving up or down
the levels of the management hierarchy
or within one level of the organization
from one employee
to another employee.
The loss of a message
when moving up
the levels of the management hierarchy,
when selecting information,
when distributing it
among different recipients,
when purposefully
cutting off the information
from the general management
and simplifying the message
in the event of the transmission
of specific instructions to the subordinates.
The managers who transmit the message
and determine what to transmit
come from the desire
to overcome all possible obstacles
in interpersonal contacts
from their own assessment
of the importance and utility
of a particular piece of information.
This moment pushes them
to filter them
and to emphasize other messages.
Such selection may be the reason
for not getting important information
to another sector of the organization
or for getting information
with a significant distortion of meaning.
For example,
one study showed
that only 63% of the information
sent by the Board of Directors
reached the Vice-Presidents,
40% reached the managers
and only 20% reached the employees.
There may be other reasons
for filtering the information.
For example,
messages sent up
the levels of the management hierarchy
may be distorted
due to the tendency
to provide the management
with the opportunity
to receive only positive information.
This may lead to the fact
that the subordinate
does not inform the manager
about a potential or existing problem
because he does not want to
tell the boss bad news.
Since the subordinates often want
to receive approval from the manager,
they can only tell him
what he wants to hear.
Studies show
that such status differences
are strongly reflected
in the way
the management
communicates the information.
Among other reasons
that prevent the employees
from conveying the information
may be fear of punishment
and a sense of uselessness of their work.
Another important reason
why the content of the message
may not reach the recipient
is overloading the recipient
with other incoming messages
or his discontent
with the subject of the message.
The message
may not reach the recipient.
Organizations with complex
multi-level structures
may face other problems.
The organizations' subordinates
are themselves organizations
and, consequently,
they inevitably have their own goals.
Therefore, if the organization's structure
and motivation system
are built in a bad way,
the subordinates' goals
may contradict
the organization's common goals
and the organization's goals.
The higher the level of the organization's structure,
the greater the probability
of significant contradictions.
To overcome the obstacles
both in verbal and in written communication,
the 5C communication system
has been adopted.
First of all,
clarity.
The message and information
should be as clear
as possible.
Often insufficient clarity
is caused by an attempt
to express too many thoughts
with one sentence.
The second is completeness.
Simplification of information
may lead to its incompleteness.
Some information
may be more harmful
than its complete absence.
The next is correctness.
In the case of long,
unconnected messages,
the problem is rarely associated
with the excess of the topic.
Much more often,
the problem is with the specific message
that the person wants to convey.
The next is concreteness.
Usually, communicators resort
to abstractions and generalizations
when they are not at all suitable
for real, concrete facts.
Abstraction is, of course,
a value when we deal
with abstract things.
However, we waste precious time
and abilities
when we squeeze real things
into abstract or non-concrete formulations.
The choice of a specific terminology
becomes more and more important
as the business is globalized.
A term used in one culture
may have a completely opposite meaning
in another.
And finally, the last is correctness.
It is completely useless
to use communication techniques
without any fault
if the message you send is incorrect.
Management should create
such an organizational structure
that will stimulate
positive and effective communication,
which requires both individual skills
and organizational actions.
First,
the atmosphere of trust and openness
in the organization
encourages employees
to have honest communication with each other.
Then employees painlessly
convey both good
and bad news.
To create such an atmosphere of trust
and dialogue,
it is necessary to make an effort
to develop interpersonal
quality of the employees.
Secondly, managers must
have formal communication channels
in all areas.
Thirdly, managers must
stimulate simultaneous use
of multiple communication channels
both formal and informal.
The number of such multiple channels
includes written directives,
face-to-face discussions,
public appearances and secret telegraph.
For example, at General Motors factories
a newspaper is published every month.
Managers regularly hold meetings
with the company's employees
to transmit news
and to use electronic displays
in the cafeteria.
Sending messages
through multiple channels
simultaneously increases the chances
that they will be received
and correctly understood.
Fourthly, the organization's structure
must meet the needs of communication.
If the organization has a shortage
of horizontal communication channels,
and teams can be created in it,
specialized groups,
managers' positions
and matrix structures
must be introduced.
The organization's structure
must reflect the needs
of the information.
If a department or team
performs complex,
non-standard tasks,
a decentralized structure
is necessary,
which allows to intensify discussions
and involve employees
in the management process.
Overcoming organizational
and communication barriers
is essential for the organization
to have a high-quality
and highly efficient
communication technology.
Communication and a high-quality
workplace
Progress in information technology
allows organizations
to distribute information
faster than before,
to have more access
to the volume of information,
to have a more efficient
and reliable system
to have a wider
and direct access
to this information,
to encourage participation
in the exchange of information
and its use,
to integrate systems and functions,
and to use information
for communication
with the environment
without any precedent.
Negative sides
of electronic communication
must be realized.
First, these technologies
should interact with machines,
not with each other.
Electronics also eliminates
the non-verbal component
of communication,
which can add additional context
to the situation.
Some people, for example,
say that sending an e-mail
is much easier to be harsh,
overly critical and insensitive
than in personal contact.
In this sense,
using computer communication
can make people less restrained
and more impatient
in their statements.
Another danger of new
communication technologies
is information overload.
Individual users
may have difficulties
sorting useful and empty information.
For example,
giant IT company Intel
has problems with e-mail.
Employees of the company
are forced to process
more than 3 million e-mails a day.
The messages
on a certain topic
are scattered
in the inboxes.
Important documents
are often freely circulated
on corporate networks,
sometimes even in several copies.
Your cooperation with colleagues
can be more fruitful
and the company's activities
more successful
if you use one of the network
means of group work,
which provide the opportunity
to access information
from any point in the world
where there is an Internet access.
For example,
the development of Russian programmers
and the operating system of the Motiv company
allow you to participate in the life of your company
by being in any point of the globe.
It allows you to control
the rising and descending
horizontal information streams,
to group information
according to the characteristic
convenient for the user,
to automatically generate
the information
about the activity of the employees.
All information about the course of the project,
the tasks and assignments
is stored in the database
and is available at any time
for work or acquaintance.
The Motiv system
allows you to work
on common projects
of partners, clients, and agents,
creating a single information space
between the participants
of the communication process.
There are many questions
about the role of communication
in the context of modern organizations.
The interest in studying
the female and male communication styles
is not diminished.
It is believed that men and women
are taught and socialized
in different ways,
as a result of which
they often experience difficulties
in communicating with each other.
Women in communication
are focused on building relationships,
while men try to
surround them with individuals
whose communication style
is suitable for their own.
The conclusion is that
in the process of communication
either women or men
will dominate
depending on who
will be in the majority
in a particular situation.
Do women have better
communication skills
compared to men?
The survey showed
that in terms of communication skills,
the women have a higher ability
to find and meet,
to give an assessment,
and to delegate powers to others.
The leadership evaluates
women managers
higher than their male colleagues.
The subordinates also evaluated
these abilities in women managers
higher than in men.
These results can be explained
by the fact that early socialization
and education
improve women's
communication skills
and, on the contrary,
men can socialize in such a way
that it inevitably creates
communication problems,
aggression and spirit of rivalry.
Taking this opportunity into account,
it is very important to avoid
gender stereotypes
and focus your attention
on the exclusively important question
of how to maximize
the effectiveness of communication
in organizations.
Today, many contradictions
in organizational communications
are being raised.
One example is the control
by employers
over e-mails
that employees send
from their workplace.
The study conducted
by the American Association of Management
found that the electronic control
over the employee's activity
increases by 45% per year.
You may be surprised
that most often
bosses monitor the phone numbers
of the employees
and how long
they talk on the phone.
Then they monitor e-mails
27% of all cases,
computer files 21%
and the content
of phone conversations.
The question of keeping secrets
remains controversial
because the continuous development
of communication technologies
makes it easier for employers
to introduce electronic monitoring
over how employees perform
their work
and carry out their communications.
Our society is fighting
for political correctness
of communication at work.
The working dictionary is changing
and people are thinking more
about not offending
another person or a group of people.
Today we use such terms
as people with physical disabilities
or people of older age.
Not so long ago
these groups of people
were called differently
and their names
may change in the future.
Organizations even organize
special trainings
for their employees
to help them eliminate
all shades of intolerance
or inattention from the communication process.
Open communication
involves the exchange of information
of all types
between all structural
divisions of the organization
and hierarchical levels.
Many companies
open their financial documents
and make them available
to all levels of employees
so that employees understand
how and why the company
works as it does.
Open communication
contradicts the traditional
downward trend
when the management
sends the subordinates
incomplete information.
Getting rid of the usual
and functional divisions
of these potential
communication barriers
the organization gets the opportunity
to use the ideas
of all its employees.
When the idea is circulated
only in a narrow circle of managers
there is no effective training
or changes in the organization.
There is no formation
of a network of relationships
thanks to which companies
thrive in modern conditions.
Attracting more people
and a wider range of opinions
is beneficial for organizational communication.
In addition,
open communication
contributes to the appearance
of trust and commitment
to common goals.
This is extremely important
for organizations whose activities
are associated with cooperation
and knowledge exchange.
Dialogue is a group
communication process
whose participants form
a content stream of information
and share their worldview.
Initially,
the participants of the dialogue
can provide a complete
opposite to each other,
but through open discussion
they find common ideals,
common themes,
common goals.
It is easiest to describe
the concept of dialogue
by comparing it with a discussion.
The differences between the two
are presented on slide 31.
The task of the discussion
is to express
one's point of view
and convince others to accept it.
The rule of the discussion
and its logic
is to break the resistance
of the opposing side.
In dialogue, on the contrary,
the participants want
to express their opinion
and offer to speak
on the other side
on this topic.
This allows to achieve
a more complete understanding
of the new ideas.
The goal of dialogue
is to understand each other's point of view
and find points of contact.
Both forms of communication
and discussion and dialogue
can lead to changes,
but the result of the discussion
is limited by the frameworks
of the discussed topic,
and the result of the dialogue
is characterized by unity of opinions,
common content
and change of worldview.
As the more deep
the decisions between the participants
of the dialogue,
the more trustful
and closer relations develop,
which naturally contributes
to the quality of communication.
And finally, the final section,
which needs to be discussed
in more detail,
is feedback and training.
Feedback to the subordinate
is the voice of the reaction
to certain of his actions,
and this is necessary
for several reasons.
First,
this is a simple expression of attention,
which, as various studies show,
often has a beneficial effect
on the relationship
between people working together.
Secondly,
timely feedback
allows to perform preventive work
on the employee's mistakes.
Thirdly, feedback
has a motivating function.
It allows the employee
to find out what is expected of him
and what are the criteria for assessment
of his work.
And most importantly,
feedback allows to achieve
the desired results from the employee.
Feedback shows the employee
how his work is evaluated.
Therefore, as feedback,
various instruments of stimulation
such as indirect assessment tools
can be considered.
Such indirect tools include
gratitude or reproach,
reward or depression,
increase or decrease
of the employee's work,
and service improvement.
All these tools show
whether the employee is evaluated
well or badly.
However, sometimes it is difficult
for the employee to figure out
what exactly he was encouraged
or punished for.
Therefore, feedback is effective
only when the supervisor
explains in detail
what is good in his work
and what is not very good.
Therefore, the most effective
feedback tool
is the one provided by the employee
when the employee not only
learns about the assessment of his work,
but also has the opportunity
to ask questions
and clarify incomprehensible points.
There are various situations
in the work life
when the use of feedback
is not only appropriate,
but also necessary.
Feedback is related to such types of feedback
as assessment of the current
activity of the employee,
feedback on the employee's proposals,
and feedback on the attitude
of the employee
to the company.
The purpose of feedback
on the current activity
is to evaluate the employee's work,
to show what is done well
and what should be done in the future,
to identify shortcomings
and discuss ways to correct them.
In addition, it is important
to show the employee
the importance of his work for the company,
that is, to motivate him.
The main rule is that
feedback should be based on facts.
Feedback should not be converted
into a compliment or praise of the employee,
that is,
a compliment or a compliment
of the employee's work.
Feedback should ideally
include highlighting
the strengths of the employee's work,
the behavior of the employee,
and the weaknesses,
that is, the places that require correction.
Studies show
that when analyzing the behavior
of other people,
we underestimate the influence
of a person's nature
and his personal abilities,
and underestimate the influence
of specific circumstances
that affect
a particular activity.
For example,
the reason for the employee's
non-productive work
is most likely due to the lack
of personal abilities of the employee,
not due to the situation
at his workplace.
This phenomenon is called
a non-productive work.
That is why it is very important
to evaluate the employee,
to talk to him,
to clarify the situation
in which he was
and what influenced
the result they presented.
This approach will help
to avoid mistakes
when evaluating the employee's work
and be objective.
Feedback on the employee's proposals
is intended to support the initiative,
to increase motivation,
and to promote the employee's work.
If you are collecting the employee's proposals,
you need to give feedback
on all of them
and take any action
to show the employees
that the situation will change
or explain why the proposal
is not accepted
and the situation does not change.
Conversations with feedback
are made as the proposals
are received from the employees.
When preparing for such a conversation,
the supervisor
should study the employee's proposal,
the written document
or the conversation that took place,
assess its relevance
or novelty in the first approach,
its timing,
its necessity,
make a decision
and prepare arguments
for refusal or vice versa,
give the employee the approval
and determine what further work is required.
If the employee himself
does not say something,
then you need to ask the guiding questions.
It is important that the employee
speaks out all the above rules himself.
Then he will be more realistic
and critical
about his proposal.
Feedback on the employee's proposals
should be presented as follows.
First, what is interesting,
what did the employee come up with
and what is interesting
the employee proposed.
Second,
what and where can be improved.
Third,
set the points of relevance,
feasibility,
adequacy of the proposed proposals.
The fourth step
is to make a general verdict
whether it is accepted or not,
whether it is accepted now
or after a certain period of time.
And the last step
is to agree on the following actions
that the employee should take
in connection with his proposal.
Feedback on the employee's plans
is provided by the supervisor
with such a periodicity
that the plans themselves are prepared.
Weekly plans,
for example,
for sales managers
are better discussed every week
for 5 or 10 minutes
to control the motivation
of prioritization.
And monthly plans
are discussed every month.
The structure of the meeting
on the discussion and approval of the plan
may have different consequences.
In the first case,
if everything is not in line with the plan,
the employee needs to be informed
and if he has questions
or needs to discuss something important,
he needs to be helped.
If the provided plan
requires adjustments,
the supervisor must decide
what is in line with the plan
and can be left,
what is not in line with the plan
and needs to be changed.
And the supervisor
must decide
what needs to be improved.
Then the supervisor
must initiate a discussion
on the issues
that the employee has difficulties with
or give information sources,
give the employee a certain course of thought
and finally agree on the terms
of the provision of the revised plan.
Feedback on the employee's reports
The minimum that can be done
is to inform the employee
that the report was successfully accepted
and note the most important
merits and achievements of the employee.
If the report requires
some kind of adjustment,
feedback on the employee's report
can be given
according to the following scheme.
The first thing to do
is that the supervisor
must tell the employee
what he is satisfied with
in the work done during the reporting period,
what was done well.
Then the supervisor
tells the employee
what he is not satisfied with
in the work done during the reporting period,
what were the goals,
what indicators were not achieved,
in which tasks the priorities were set incorrectly,
where the deadlines were broken,
where the quality of the work was not satisfactory,
and so on.
The supervisor must also discuss
with the employee
the reason why he did not complete
a particular task,
what helps and what prevents
the employee from solving the tasks set.
How will he fix the situation?
How to achieve the goals set?
And the last thing
is that the supervisor sets priorities
in solving the tasks
and mistakes of the employee.
After providing the primary feedback
on the supervisor's plans and reports,
the employee must take
a few more steps.
The first thing is that the employee
corrects or complements the plan or report
taking into account the feedback from the supervisor.
The second thing is that the supervisor
studies the corrected documents.
And the third thing is that the supervisor
provides the final feedback
on the attitude of the employee
to what is happening in the company,
on changes and innovations.
Its goal is to avoid
the misunderstanding of the staff
set by the tasks, strategies
and corporate values of the company.
Usually, in order to introduce
changes in the company,
the employees are informed.
That is, they say,
for example,
we decided to live in a new way.
In order to introduce changes,
the employees are informed
and the company is informed.
The most important thing
is to ask the employees
what they think about it,
what are their concerns and objections.
For these purposes,
the survey is used,
the method of box of proposals,
personal conversations with the employee.
As in the case of the employee's proposals,
in no case can the employees
be left without attention
and concerns.
Thus, the feedback of the employees
should be contained in themselves.
The first is the connection to the situation.
That is, I understand
that the upcoming changes
will be quite difficult for us.
This will bring a lot of new things
to our activity.
The second is the praise of the employee
for certain concerns.
It is very good that you noticed
that in this situation
certain aspects of our activity
will change
and we will have to do something.
And finally, the last thing
is the dissemination of myths.
We should not answer
the objections of the well-known leaders.
After all, as you know,
the root of all objections
is the lack of information.
That is, we need to continue
this example
by answering the objections
that have come from employees.
And in conclusion,
let's add several rules
to the principles of feedback
that we have already discussed today.
The first is that there should be feedback.
It is not worth hoping
that the employee will simply
take into account the opinion of the leader
or the significant silence
that is required of him.
The second is that feedback
should be timely.
It is not worth discussing the situation
that happened a year ago.
Even when providing
negative feedback,
you need to find something
to praise the employee for.
And you need to start
with the assessment of what is good
in his work.
And you need to prepare
for feedback.
You should not expect
that everything will change
immediately after feedback.
Unfortunately, feedback
does not work like a magic wand.
Change is a long and difficult process.
Sometimes you need to repeat
the same thing many times.
After all, the habit of doing something
in a certain way
only goes away over time
and with the correct reinforcement
of the desired result.
And this is one of the most powerful
tools of staff management.
If feedback is organized
correctly and systematically,
it allows you to achieve
a positive attitude to tasks,
a positive attitude to work tasks,
to comments on his address,
to understanding and acceptance of criticism,
as well as the readiness
to correct the shortcomings.
The employee is ready
and striving to correct
his shortcomings
and to improve his performance.
Is this employee
not a dream of any manager?
In conclusion,
I would like to say
that in the last survey
conducted by the American
Association of Management,
only 63% of respondents
gave a positive assessment
to their managers
on the indicator of bringing
information to the employees
and instructions.
The surveyed employees
from another selection
assessed the ability of their managers
to listen and ask questions
only in 3.36 points
on a 5-point scale.
It is obvious that in the field
of communication at work
and among managers
there is still a lot to do.
I wish you success in this
and I hope that our course
will help you in your organization's real work.